{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Coming back from japan:\
\
One of the really nice things about Japan are the traditions.  When you pay at a store, you put your money (cash, typically) in a little tray made for that explicit purpose.  The cashier will then count out your change, hand it to you, and bow, saying "Gozaimashta!"  You would then bow back and repeat the greetings. The cashier would then hand you your receipt, and you'd go in for another round of Gozaimashtas and bows.  \
\
Definitely not the most efficient way to conduct a purchase, but flying back to the US I wandered into Starbucks for a latte. My money was unceremoniously taken from me, and not a word spoken as I got my receipt.  No bow, from either party.\
\
The entire process felt hollow somehow, a lesser-grade experience.  The customary bow had become if not efficient, at least something I had become accustomed to, a comfortable part of my shopping experience.  It's not too crazy of a stretch to compare this to software user experience - when I scroll down with on a touchscreen device, I fully expect the screen (if vertically scrollable) to head down with me, and immediately.  If it doesn't (even if I can accomplish my goals just as well), the experience feels disingenuous, failing to meet an implicit standard set by Apple.\
\
So, there you have it. Japan is the Apple of person-to-person relationships. They set a higher bar that you miss once it's not there anymore.}